---
layout: post
title: 'Dear DBA: A silly idea for a silly day'
tags: entity-framework
---

Happy April Fool's Day! Don't worry, I'm not going to gaslight you with some distasteful prank. (I really hate those.) Instead, I thought it would be fun to share a silly idea we've had on the Entity Framework team for years.

The year was 2011. We were just about to release version 4.3 which was the first to include Code First Migrations. We were thinking about how you might want to extend the Migrations SQL generation. We were also thinking about how much DBAs hated us because of the convoluted SQL our queries sometimes generated. (Don't worry, we improved that.) We decided that instead of handing the DBAs a SQL script generated by Migrations, it might be better if you could just send a database creation request that described the application's requirements. That way, *they* could write the SQL exactly the way they want it and couldn't complain about how we generated ours.

And so, I present to you Dear DBA! Yes, the [source code](https://github.com/bricelam/DearDba) is even available on GitHub. It's a migrations SQL generator that does just that. Here's an example of what it generates for the classic Blogs and Posts model.

> Dear DBA,
>
> We lowly developers would once again petition you for a new database.
>
> We'll need a Blogs table with the following columns. A required Id column to store unique INTEGER values. We'll use the Id value as the primary way of identifying rows in the table. A required Url column to store TEXT values.
>
> We'll also need a Posts table with the following columns. A required Id column to store unique INTEGER values. We'll use the Id value as the primary way of identifying rows in the table. A required Title column to store TEXT values. A required Content column to store TEXT values. A required BlogId column to store INTEGER values that reference the Blogs table.
>
> We don't really know what an index is, but in the past you've been able to use them to improve performance and compensate for some of our more incompetent queries. We will, of course, defer to your far superior expertise on this matter. Nevertheless, we will suggest a few that we're reasonable certain about.
>
> We think the BlogId column on the Posts table should be indexed.
>
> Sincerely,  
> The Developers

I hope my geeky, self-deprecating sense of humor can bring you a bit of cheer today. Happy coding!
